This week on the podcast, I have an
extra special guest. [music] Hillary
Allen is a law professor at American
University where she specializes in
regulation, technology, and uh finance.
Uh she also is the author of a book
available for free online, Fintech
Dystopia, a summer beachread about how
Silicon Valley is ruining things. really
a fascinating conversation about [music]
everything from artificial intelligence
and blockchain to crypto and venture
capital. I thought this conversation was
really interesting and I think you will
also with no further ado my conversation
with American University's Hillary
Allen,
Hillary Allen. welcome to Bloomberg.
>> Thank you so much for having me.
>> So, fascinating conversation,
fascinating uh topic that you write
about. Before we jump into that, let's
let's spend a few minutes going over
your background. You get a bachelor's in
laws from the University of Sydney in
Australia, a master of laws in
securities and financial regulation law
from Georgetown here in the States. Um,
and you graduated first in your class
there. What was the original career
plan? Was it simply I'm going to go be a
lawyer? What what what were you
thinking?
>> The original career plan was I'm just
going to be a lawyer. Uh and then I
loved law school and I practiced for
seven years and discovered there wasn't
so much law always in the practice of
law
>> and I'm a nerd and I missed it. And so
the the drive was to go back to
Georgetown, get my masters, do some
academic writing, and then launch a
career as a professor where I could
really sort of think slowly about the
law. And
>> and you practiced, you were in London,
you were in Sydney, uh Sherman and
Sterling here in New York. Tell us a
little bit about the sort of legal work
you were doing when you were a
practicing attorney.
>> So basically there's sort of two broad
categories of the work I did. Um I did
transactional work, banking
transactional, typically acting for
banks in leverage buyouts. Um but the
work I think I enjoyed more was the
regulatory compliance advisory. U so
there was more law in that. Um
especially when you had new financial
laws being handed down in Australia and
changes in the US with DoddFrank and
sort of trying to figure out how to
comply with those new rules. So, how do
you go from practicing
bank transactions and some regulatory
law to ultimately working with the
financial crisis inquiry commission?
Tell us a little bit about your
experiences there.
>> So, that was a a series of series of
fortunate events. Um while I was doing
my masters at Georgetown, I had a
professor who was tapped to be um on the
staff of the financial crisis inquiry
commission and he pulled me in to work
with them two days a week and we were
investigating the causes of the 2008
financial crisis to put together the
report uh that came out which really was
sort of
>> it's a nice thick book that they
published.
>> It's a really thick book with a really
thick index even. Um, and the idea was
to tell the story and that's really sort
of stuck with me throughout my career,
the importance of being able to explain
complex things and how they knit
together to cause things.
>> So, working with the FCIC, how did that
affect how you looked at regulation in
general, but more specifically the
government's response to technology, new
financial products, um, the regulatory
world in general?
So the gift that I got from working with
the financial crisis inquiry commission
is sort of understanding that there are
a lot of things that come together and
you need to really look very broadly to
understand systemic changes. Um, another
gift that it gave me was, I think, a
healthy skepticism of innovation
rhetoric, right? Because if you think
back to 2008 and what caused it, you
know, there were all these stories
about, well, these new financial
products, these complex new derivatives,
we don't need to regulate them. They're
innovation, sophisticated parties
involved. We don't want to tamp down on
innovative potential. And so that that
skepticism has been a helpful skill set
as I've been navigating the sort of
post208
financial world where you have the
innovation rhetoric from Silicon Valley
infiltrating into financial services.
>> You you rais a really interesting issue
that I I have to ask about. So how much
of what we see as regulation is either
an adherence to a a an ideology that
sometimes says regulation is good and
are guardrails on capitalism uh and
other uh ideology says regulation is
expensive and anti-inovative and reduces
job creation. It seems like regardless
of the facts on the ground, each side
has their belief system. H how do you
contextualize that?
>> Well, I mean, I think I don't think
there were too many people in the depths
of the 2008 crisis who were saying
there's too much regulation, right? I
think it's a function of where you are
in a particular time. I think people's
memories fade really quickly.
>> And as soon as regulation has solved the
problems it was intended to solve or the
crisis that spurred the regulation has
dissipated,
people quickly forget why that
regulation is there in place and then it
becomes much easier to see it as
something that is just a hindrance,
something that is just expensive that
doesn't have a role to play. But I think
what we're actually seeing right at this
moment is the erosion of the securities
laws that really have stood investors in
goodstead since the 1930s. Not to say
they're perfect, but the the general
sort of investor protection regime that
the Securities and Exchange Commission
has always implemented has really
encouraged trust in the US um stock
market and and sort of made it the envy
of the world and people wanted to list
here. that's really getting peeled back
right now. And so I think, you know,
it'll be
pretty soon a moment where we realize
why we had all that regulation and we'll
miss it.
>> So, so heading into the financial
crisis,
um, I recall looking at some of what I
called radical deregulation prior, and
this isn't by no means the sole cause of
the financial crisis. Lots of factors
led to this, but you had the Commodities
Futures Modernization Act, which allowed
what was essentially an insurance
product to be issued without any
insurance reserves. Seems kind of risky.
And then you had the repeal of
GlassSteagall that kept uh depository
banks separate from speculative uh Wall
Street banks. probably didn't cause the
crisis, but certainly allowed it to get
much bigger at the at the very least.
Um, and yet there didn't seem to be any
desire after the crisis. Hey, maybe we
should put these things back into place.
Maybe we should repeal what was added
and restore what was repealed. Nobody
want they want to go a totally different
direction. Well, I think again this is a
story of political economy and there are
still a lot of people who are mad at the
Obama administration for prioritizing
health care over financial reform
>> because basically they had one shot at
doing something big. Um, and if they had
and I I'm not weighing in to say that
this was the right or the wrong move,
but if they had gone right out of the
gates with financial reform, I think we
would have seen more of the bigger
structural things that you're talking
about. So, you know, in that immediate
aftermath of the 2008 crisis, you had um
Sandy While who had been the head of
Cityroup and and had sort of engineered
the end of the GlassSteagall um
legislation and and from this may be
apocryphal, but apparently he had a a
deal toy that said um shatterer of
GlassSteagall that he kept kept on his
desk. And again, this may be apocryphal,
but I heard that he basically sort of
had a conversion after 2008 and said,
"Oo, yeah, probably shouldn't have done
that."
>> Well, well, a lot of people did. Alan
Greenspan famously said, "I incorrectly
assume people's concern over their own
reputation would have prevented some of
the excesses we've seen." I'm
paraphrasing, but that was pretty close
to what he said.
>> Yeah. He said, "The world sort of didn't
work the way I thought it did." And I
think, you know, had they gone straight
out of the gates with financial reform,
you might have seen some of that
structural reform, but by the time they
got around to it, you know, DoddFrank
wasn't passed to 2010. You know, then
then the political economy calculus had
shifted. Um, the industry was in more of
a position to sort of argue for weaker
rules and and fewer structural changes.
>> It's amazing how rapidly memories fade
and and people just quickly,
>> oh no, that was then, now it's new.
You've worked inside the global
financial system as well as studying it
from the outside. How did being part of
the FCIC affect how you perceive
technology, new financial products,
regulation
um and deregulation? How how did that
affect your your perspective?
>> You know, I didn't think a ton about
technology at that time. That's sort of
been a later addition to the work that I
do. But the broader themes of financial
innovation, um, regulation,
deregulation,
you know, I see the value in financial
stability regulation in particular. So
financial stability regulation are the
rules that are supposed to prevent
financial crisis and they work often
sort of handinhand with investor
protection regulations, but they also
aim to do something differently. And
part of the challenge when you're trying
to prevent a financial crisis is this
silo mentality where people just think
about their own little piece of the
world and okay we can deregulate our
little piece and we don't won't think
about the flow on consequences and what
what incentives it'll create etc. And so
you know my real takeaway was always to
have the most holistic perspective
possible to break down that silo
mentality. And later in my career that
meant learning about the new
technologies that are sort of
infiltrating the the financial system.
>> So so I want to talk about technology
and I want to talk about fintech
dystopia but there is a quote from
within that that applies directly to
what you're describing with stability
which was it's the economic precarity
stupid. Um paraphrasing James Carville
tell us a little bit about the economic
procarity. Yeah. So I think a mistake
that we have made collectively in recent
years is to say well look the economy is
doing well everything's fine and that
really doesn't
you know mesh with many people's
experience of the economy. So, it used
to be, well, probably not always the
case, but closer to the case in the
Clinton years where there was less
economic inequality than there is now,
that you could sort of say a rising tide
lifts all boats. But now, what we're
seeing is over half of Americans live
from paycheck to paycheck even in a good
economy, right? And so, in that kind of
circumstance,
the financial systems not in the economy
aren't working for everybody. And so I
think when we think about what we're
trying to achieve with our financial
system, it should be
that we are trying to find an a solution
to this economic procarity. And also
that begs the question of whether the
financial system and investing is in
actually the way to get there. And maybe
we need broader public policies to
address that economic procarity so that
no one or at least not half of the
population are just scraping by.
>> So we just passed a new set of laws that
include thousand accounts for for
newborns. Isn't that going to solve
financial inequality? All these kids by
the time they're 30, they'll be worth
millions.
>> [gasps]
>> Um, I think you might need to offset
against the people losing their health
insurance subsidies. I don't think that
$1,000 is going to go very far,
>> right? And and what's fascinating is
watching um just a parade of
billionaires come out and no, we need to
supplement that $1,000. So, first it was
Michael Dell and then it was Ray Dallio.
I don't know who else is going to step
forward, but it appears, hey, we're not
really paying a whole lot in taxes. is
we might as well throw some money at
some some babies. That seems to be the
philosophy.
>> Yeah. I mean, I don't love
philanthropy in that sense supplementing
democratically sort of elected policies.
You know, it it gives a lot of sort of
discretion and power to people as to how
they want to distribute their large ass.
to to some degree that's fine. But
again, when we have a society where half
of the population is barely scraping by,
I don't think their livability should be
predicated on the whims of billionaire
large s fair enough. Um, you you talked
about technological
innovation. In your book, you argue that
that is financial technology innovation
is driven largely by legal design rather
than technical brilliance. Explain that
a little bit. What what is it about
fintech that seems to be working the
perspective uh from an attorney rather
than an engineer?
>> Yeah, so this was something that as I
said I came to a little later in my
career. I think earlier in my career
when I first started looking at fintech,
I generally accepted, you know, the
party line. This technology is
revolutionary. This technology is making
things more efficient. This technology
is fixing things. And then I realized
that the people who were saying that had
something to sell and I probably should
learn a little more about the technology
because if you want to work on financial
regulatory policy now, you need to
understand the extent to which the
technology actually lives up to what is
claimed. it can do. And so sort of my
first sort of foray into this was I've
looked really in detail at blockchain
which is is truly frankly a terrible
technology. It's a clunky database and
and and it's not something you would
ever choose for any kind of financial
market infrastructure, but for the fact
that it's been very easy to convince
regulators not to regulate it. And so
the value ad that comes from crypto has
never been blockchain technology as a
technology. it's been whipping up
stories about that technology that have
justified avoiding regulation. And we
see it in other instances as well. You
know, there are um fintech lending that
is replicating
um some of the the predatory payday
lending that we've seen before,
>> the buy now pay later sort of financing
or
>> Well, the payday payday loans have been
around a lot longer than that. Um, this
is sort of a sort of it's like a $400
loan that you get to bridge you over
till your next payday.
>> Um, and you know, there's been a lot of
predation in that market and some states
had banned those those products
essentially.
>> You think 29% interest is not fair? You
have a problem with that? We're just
trying to make a profit here.
>> Some of these interest rates are 300%.
>> Get out.
>> Yeah,
>> that's insane. And And what does New
York top out at? Like 19% something like
that. I I don't know about New York.
Yeah. Um but but
>> but normally anything you know mid
double digits is is us thought of as
usurious. 300% is just next level.
>> Yeah. I mean they're not it's not set as
an interest rate per se. They're fees
but once you actually convert that into
a panom they can be in the hundreds of
percentages. And so that has always been
a problem. And we have had states act.
And then we've had new fintech lenders
saying, "Well, actually, we're different
from payday lenders because we use AI to
screen our borrowers and so you should
treat us differently. Um, and yet
they're charging interest rates that are
equivalent to what payday lenders do."
And then you mentioned buy now pay
later. Again, they say, "Well, we're
we're not even extending loans. This
isn't a loan at all, so we shouldn't
have to comply with the laws around
lending, around disclosure, around that
kind of thing."
>> How is that not a loan? You're buying a
product that you don't have money for.
Someone is paying for that. Isn't that a
loan?
>> I would say so.
>> Okay.
>> But but
>> what what's the counter to this isn't a
loan. This is a a pre- layaway
>> essentially. Yeah. No, we you know, we
we we don't charge interest. There are
late fees if you don't pay, but that's
not the same as interest, you know.
>> Oh, that's fair. Like we we we bought a
couch, no interest for six months. So as
long as you pay it off within 6 months,
that sort of thing seems to be interest
free.
>> But then when you look at the business
model and you see that a significant
chunk of the people are incurring these
late fees, then
>> well that's their fault, isn't it?
That's human nature. We you can't blame
us. If we take advantage of people
procrastinating and not paying off their
uh fees in time.
>> Well, it's not that they're
procrastinating. It's that they're
choosing between paying rent or paying
this off. So this
>> food, medicine. Exactly. So this this is
coming back to it's the econ economic
procarity stupid right? If people are in
these dire straits we should not be
surprised that fintech firms are trying
to capitalize on that and profit from
it.
>> Which is why I think you know what we
need are
some kind of public safety nets um to to
sort of make and a higher minimum wage
and higher social security benefits.
>> Uhhuh. So, so let's talk about the
digital only book. Ironic, right? Um,
fintech dystopia where you describe
modern financial technology simply as
Silicon Valley ruining things. Explain
that seems like an extreme example and
and give us some examples of how Silicon
Valley is ruining things.
>> So, just to be clear, not all modern
technology is ruining things. There's a
particular business model approach that
I think is ruining things and that is
derivative in many ways of the venture
capital model in Silicon Valley.
>> Venture capital,
>> just venture.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Venture capital model in Silicon
Valley. So, it's sort of got this sheen
around it that's iconoclastic and they
they make bets on these moonshots
that'll, you know, save all of humanity
and yada yada yada. But in fact, it's
it's pretty well established as a
playbook at this point. Um, you know,
there's a lot of subsidies that go to
venture capital by virtue of their
having access to pension funds um by
virtue of sort of um capital gains
taxation. And so they've got sort of and
and especially in low interest rate
environments, they attract a lot of
money. So they have pretty cheap money
available to them.
>> And then they go shopping. Um, and what
they go shopping for is not the
iconoclastic sort of outlier that we
think of, but what we've seen and what
the evidence shows is that they tend to
go shopping for the same things that
their friends are going shopping for.
And they go shopping for the businesses
that their friends have developed. And
so there's this sort of very sort of uh
insular mentality in what they're
looking for. And they're also looking
for something that they can cash out of
very quickly. Um because the you know
the average venture capital fund has a
what a 10 year sometimes 12 but usually
10 year duration that's really not that
much time to find something to invest in
have it grow and then cash out and so
they're not looking for things that are
going to take decades to develop.
They're looking for things that they can
grow quickly and get out of in about
five or six years.
>> So give us a few examples. What do you
think is uh the sort of um you know not
adding a whole lot of value
venturebacked businesses?
>> So
not intentionally but it just turned out
that way as I wrote this this book.
Almost every fintech business I looked
at had been funded by Andre Harowitz. Um
they had been sort of the lead. So you
know they they
>> they're the hot VC these days. I I've
full disclosure I've interviewed Andre.
I've interviewed Kapoor. I've
interviewed Horowitz. So, I've sat with
them and talked about a lot of their
businesses, but the past few years
they've been very front and center, very
active.
>> Yeah. No, and and they sort of they have
their as a marquee name, as you said,
they're the hot VCs. Once they say they
like something, they can basically
attract other venture capital to those
those businesses. And so, they're
essentially taste makers. Um,
>> which which is fascinating you say that
because before that it was Sequoia,
before that it was Kina Perkins. Like
you work your way, there's a hot firm
for a decade. The '9s had it, the 2000s
had it, the 2010s had it. Um, they tend
not to maintain that position forever.
Although to Andrea Harowitz's credit,
they've been the itgirl for a good good
run so far.
>> Yeah. I mean, I wouldn't say that that's
a good thing, but um Yeah. So, you know,
they they basically built the crypto
industry. So, you know, we we the the
narrative around crypto is that is this
organic sort of community of cyber punks
and libertarians, but but they really
built that industry. They were um early
investors in Coinbase. Uh that was their
first crypto investment and then they
have plowed a lot of money into the
industry and it's sort of their seal of
approval has been what's attracted
people to it. And you know, part of what
Andre and Harowitz does is it doesn't
just invest. it's go does aggressive
marketing campaigns for the things that
they've invested in aggressive lobbying.
Um so they've really been at the
forefront for trying to get the laws
changed um to accommodate their business
models. Um so yeah they there's there's
crypto but they've also been at the sort
of the forefront of um I always there's
one of the do not pays I think it's a
firm that's theirs. I always get get
mixed up. Um they they were very um
early investors in Robin Hood um the the
fintech trading stock app
>> which originally started out as a stock
app and then it became eventually a
crypto app and now it's a bet on
anything app.
>> Yeah. And again that is a company that
by the time it IPOed had racked up all
kinds of fines from the SEC and FINRA
because it was violating laws left,
right, and center. Um, you know, it's
it was one of the first to offer
commission free brokerage. Um, but as
the chestnut goes, if you're not paying
for the product, you are the product.
and it makes most of its money from
payment for order flow and was not clear
with its customers in the early years
about that how that was going on and how
that they get paid a lot more for your
options trades than your regular stock
trades because um
>> more profitable.
>> Yeah. More profitable for the Citadel
securities of this world to to take
those. Yeah.
>> Huh. Really kind of interesting. Um, and
yet at the same time you have a chapter
in your book, Silicon Valley Welfare
Queen.
>> Mhm.
>> Explain. I thought that these are, you
know, Ein Randian
um, libertarians that don't want to
suckle off the teeth of big government
and these are people that are builders
and self-made
um, people. You're arguing not so much.
Well, they don't want us suckling on the
teat of the state because they might
have to fund that with taxes, but but
they're okay suckling themselves,
>> right? So, so give us a few examples.
What companies started out as as welfare
queens?
>> Well, I mean, again, the the whole story
of of tech, the the internet and
smartphone boom is very much based on
technologies developed by the
government,
>> DARPA and the whole internet.
>> Exactly. And you know and and I think if
you look at the iPhone a lot of the
individual technologies that went into
that again came from
>> everything with microwaves comes out of
NASA right
>> so you know first of all this this
entirely self-made story falls apart
right there because as I mentioned
earlier if you've only got six years to
turn around a technology you're not
really investing in prototypes in
thinking really hard about physical
hardware and how that works. you're
really looking for a software thing that
you can jin up pretty quickly. And so
the really long-term investment comes
from the state um and and has always
done and then it's commercialized. Um
you know and I think that that sort of
has worked well except that you get to
the point where the you know the venture
capitalists who are commercializing are
saying well we shouldn't have to pay any
taxes to fund the state that develops
these technologies. They also benefit,
as I said, enormously from um laws that
they lobbyed for in the late 70s, I
believe, uh changes to Orisa um which
allowed pension funds to v to uh invest
in venture capital basically didn't
exist before. And at that same period,
they were lobbying for changes to the
capital gains taxation.
>> Well, you have the carried interest
loophole which continues to persist. Um
I'm drawn a blank on the author's name.
There's a book Americana 400 years of
technological innovation that makes the
argument you're making go back to the
telegraph funded by Congress go back to
railroad like every major technological
innovation o or most major innovations
got seated with the government and then
eventually uh the private sector takes
over and what has changed in recent
years is that public private partnership
seems to have broken Okay.
>> Yeah. Actually, so the book I really
like on this is Margaret Omar's book,
The Code, who does she does a great
history of Silicon Valley. Um, and yeah,
I think the
the understanding that there was a
Quidber Quo has sort of fallen away. So
always the
private sector has commercialized this
this technology. But if we have an
unwillingness to sort of
pay any taxes, if we have an
unwillingness to invest in government
capacity to invest in universities where
so much of this stuff is developed, you
know, you take Mark Andre, he you know,
he got his start because he was happy or
sorry, lucky enough to be a student at
the University of Illinois at the time
where they had a special grant to look
at the beginnings of the internet. He
worked on a team there that developed a
prototype internet browser and then he
went into the private sector and they
let him build one from the private
sector and that was Netscape and that's
how he made his fortune. So he was sort
of in the right place at the right time
to take advantage of public investment
in this kind of thing and yet this is
the kind of thing that we're seeing that
these leading venture capitalists want
to shut down.
>> Really interesting. Since we've been
talking about books, you've you've
criticized abundance, which is by Derek
Thompson and Ezra Klene, as as the whole
concept of abundance is sort of a sexy
way to make excuses for technosolutions.
Tell us a little bit about that. Yeah.
So this is this is a something I get
into a lot of conversations with people
these days because I think there are
some elements of the original sort of
abundance agenda that are very appealing
to people in terms of for example
increasing housing capacity and I I do
think that that is something that needs
to happen and has to be done in the
right way.
But if you look at who is funding the
abundance movement they have conferences
etc. It is Andre Horowitz and other
people from Silicon Valley
>> and it seems to be this attempt to
essentially um put a a happier face on
the deregulatory project that Silicon
Valley is looking for to sort of make it
seem kinder, gentler, and more
progressive because the abundance
movement sort of in a nutshell is
supposed to be well we shouldn't have
artificial scarcity. we should build
more of what we want to do that we
should take away some of the roadblocks
that are getting in our own way. And
when you say it like that, it's sort of
hard to disagree with.
>> Well, that works for housing. You you
have nimiism with housing, but when you
take that away, it also means you're
going to end up with perhaps highrises
or multif family units in a suburban
area that some people don't want in
their neighborhood. There's always a
series of trade-offs with people who are
already there versus people who want to
get there. What is the specific problem
with abundance as a philosophy towards
building more of what we want a as a
society
>> because it's who gets to decide what
more of what we want is. And if you look
at who's funding the abundance agenda,
it is the billionaires and the tech
elite. And these are people who have
really shown that they are quite willing
to run roughshod over regulations that
are there to protect the public from
harm if that enables them to profit. And
so I am just skeptical that a movement
that is funded by these people is really
going to be prioritizing the kinds of
projects that would benefit the
economically precarious. I think it's
more likely that it'll be benefiting
themselves and will lose protections for
people with less voice. that are
currently in place.
>> So, what sort of overhyped products do
you think best explain um the problems
with this approach? Like what are these
companies putting out that either is a
result of regulatory capture or just
don't do what they promise? Because you
would think that in the world of venture
either your product finds um an
audience, it finds a customer base or it
doesn't and fails and that goes out of
business.
>> Yeah. So that's sort of the perverted
part of this is that that market logic
like you know survival of the fittest
because of all the subsidies that
benefit venture capital that doesn't
really apply that logic anymore. So you
know
>> give us an example
>> crypto crypto should have died many
times already particularly it should
have died in 2022 when we had the big
crypto winter
>> at that time particularly um Andre
Harowoit's crypto had this huge war
chest of funds that they had raised and
they stopped investing in crypto
startups at that point because you know
everything was marabund but what they
started using that money for was
lobbying political spending. Um, and
they really worked very hard on members
of Congress to essentially create laws
that would allow the crypto industry to
keep doing what they're doing, which was
not allowed under the securities laws as
they were. So, the whole business model
was regulatory arbitrage.
>> Mh.
>> Um, they wanted laws that would sort of
give a patina of legitimacy and
hopefully encourage institutional
investment, attract more money to the
space.
um
but not actually make them have to. For
example, like Coinbase combines
[clears throat] combines the functions
of a broker dealer and an exchange.
That's not allowed in securities. You
can see why there's all kinds of
conflicts of interest that come,
>> right? Either you're an exchange or a
brokerage firm, not both.
>> But in crypto, you're both, right? And
so if you applied the securities laws to
crypto, they would have to disagregate
and basically would probably destroy
their business model. So what they
wanted was a law that said no it's fine
crypto special you do both. Um and so
that that really
an industry that should have failed is
you know again rising being propped up
all through this sort of aggressive
political spending and and um I mean I
I've talked to people in Congress off
the record who have said that they've
only voted for these laws because
they're afraid that if they don't that
crypto industries will target them. Hm.
Um, what other products do you think are
are overhyped and and fail to satisfy
their markets?
>> Well, right now the obvious answer is a
lot of the AI products. Um, the anything
sort of it's hard when you talk about AI
because it's such an umbrella term for
so many different things, right?
>> I I have perplexity on my phone. It it
does a better job with search than
Google does. I get better, more
comprehensive
answers. Um, what's wrong with AI?
>> Well, let me disagregate it first
because there's plenty of AI that
there's nothing wrong with, right? So,
AI is not intelligent in any way, shape,
or form. It's a market, that's a
marketing term.
>> What is it is is it's an applied
statistical engine.
>> You have an algorithm that looks for
patterns in data and then acts
accordingly.
>> Um, and that kind of technology has been
around for a long time. It does like for
example, it's great for fraud detection
in a bank um for credit card
transactions for example. So that that
you know that's that's an A+ use of of
AI.
>> But the last few years everybody has
been pouring everything they've got into
these um LLM based tools these large
language made model based tools. So
these are tools that can um you know old
AI tools would just sort of classify
something, put something in a group or
or predict something but but now we have
these tools that generate content um
particularly text but also you know
video um music etc. And there are so
many problems with this technology
because it's being sold as technology
that can replace humans, right? That
that can basically it's worth throwing
trillions of dollars into this because
of the productivity gains that we'll get
by firing all the humans essentially is
is the story they're telling. Um, first
of all, that wouldn't be great,
>> right? That's a problem in and of
itself. the the way I have heard it
described that's a little less um
catastrophic is this is going to make
everybody more efficient, more
productive. It'll make companies more
profitable and we'll all be able to do
more with our existing um staff than
having to go out and hire hundreds of
more people.
>> But that is not true sadly. That's the
pitch line, right? So these these tools
make a lot of mistakes. Um you know even
the very best ones make mistakes.
>> We we've seen a lot of attorneys, you
and I are both attorneys. A lot of
judges have been calling out attorneys
who theoretically are supposed to be
doing this on their own and instead are
outsourcing it to AI and all of its
hallucinations and citing cases that
don't exist. The assumption is that's
going to get better eventually,
>> but it won't. So this is this is the
problem.
>> But it won't
>> but it won't. So these things are
statistical engines, right? They they
can't check for accuracy because they
don't understand accuracy as a concept.
>> Right? There's no reasoning. It's it's
literally I the the most statistically
most likely word after the last word I
gave you is this word.
>> There is no way to make that care about
accuracy because it's it's it's not a
it's not a thinking machine. And I think
there's increasing acceptance that these
these models have hit a wall and they
are as accurate as they are going to
get.
>> Really?
>> Yeah.
>> That's kind of that's kind of
fascinating. Uh my concern was at least
on the legal side, hey, you have this
existing body of work and all this
research and brief writing and arguments
that exist as of now. If you're going to
replace people from doing that, are you
going to freeze the state of legal
knowledge at 2026 and five or ten years
from now? If you don't have people
writing these briefs, you don't have
people writing these decisions, how can
AI respond to what's taken place over
the past 10 years, if we don't have the
humans actually doing the grunt work?
>> Yeah. I mean, there's a there's I mean,
I think those kinds of concerns have
been expressed very much in the cultural
context. you know, if if we
disincentivize creators from making new
music and new art, or is is this it? Are
we stuck with with what we've got?
>> With something like the law, one of the
challenges is that, you know, these
large language models,
>> they don't get updated on a day-to-day
basis. You know, there's there's sort of
a stop point and then they they don't
know well, they don't know anything that
they don't have the data from after a
certain date. So, that that's a
limitation. But the thing I worry most
about with the law is that you
have to be able to spot the
hallucinations or you're going to get
yourself in very big trouble. And I
think this is true for a lot of
different
>> um fields. And and this is again just to
digress a little
>> why the the profitability narrative is
not true,
>> right? Because the only place where you
can just put this content out and just
leave it there is in very low stakes
places, right? where it doesn't matter
if you get something wrong. But even,
you know, things that you wouldn't think
are such a big deal have proved to be
quite high stakes. So, Air Canada had a
chatbot that told a um customer that if
they wanted to apply for a bereavement
discount for a flight, they could do
that after their flight was done. Now,
that's not Air Canada's policy. They
they you had to do it in advance. And so
this customer tried to get their refund
after the fact and Air Canada said,
"Well, the chatbot got it wrong. Too
bad. So sad for you." And
>> it's your chatbot. You own You're
responsible for it.
>> Exactly.
>> Not not my mistake, your mistake.
>> Exactly. And so even in these sort of
reasonably low stakes customer service
interactions, there's reason to be
really worried about inaccuracy. Now you
start dialing up to things to medical
advice, legal advice, you know, it's
just you you can't rely on them. And I
worry that we're putting people in a
very difficult position because it's a
it's a lot easier to get something right
when you write it yourself than it is to
find mistakes in something someone else
has put together. Right. So, let me push
back a little bit cuz I've been watching
the
AI reading medical scans and at some
point last year um or maybe it was two
years ago, the the technology
theoretically passed the accuracy rate
of humans. um fewer false positives,
more identifying
um missed negatives that should have
been positive than people. Is is that
not accurate or where where are we with
with the medical application of that?
>> So, this is why I think it's so
important to disagregate the different
kinds of AI because that is not sort of
LLM based AI and some, as I said, some
of those tools are great. I can't weigh
in on medical imaging and things like
that. So, it may very well be the case.
What I'm talking about is, you know,
what if you've got um, you know, a
doctor coming up with instructions for a
care plan for their patients
>> and they let the AI do it, right? If
there's a mistake in there, they're much
less likely to catch it if the AI
because you know, you know how things
go. You'll be expected to look at more
of these because you're not generating
them yourself,
>> right? And it's always easier to get
things right [clears throat] when you do
it yourself than when you're reviewing
someone else. I mean, when we were
lawyers, we used to that's why you want
to have the pen on contracts. You want
to you want to hide things from the
other side. And now it's now it's the AI
hiding stuff from you. And I worry that
especially with younger lawyers coming
up through the ranks who are encouraged
to rely on these tools from the
beginning who won't actually develop the
skills because you don't learn well when
you sort of don't process it yourself.
So if you spent your whole career using
AI,
>> you're not going to be able to spot the
problems in the AI.
>> You're not going to have the skill set.
>> No. And so then I'm worried about, you
know, those young lawyers getting sued
for malpractice because they missed
something that the AI generated, but
they were never even given the
opportunity to learn how to spot it
themselves.
>> It's it's a problem with the rungs on
the ladder being removed, especially
um we see that now manifesting itself.
The unemployment rate of the under 30 is
about double what it is for the national
unemployment rate. And I can't help but
wonder how much of that is somehow
related to the proliferation of AI tools
for white collar jobs.
>> I think you know Corey Doctoro um who
does a lot of work in the tech space has
a great quote on this that I'm going to
butcher a little not say it quite as
well as he does it but he said the AI
can't do your job but the AI salesman
can convince your boss to replace you
with AI that can't do your job. Right?
So it's I think you're right that there
is at this moment you know I mean it's
also hard to say how much of this is a
AI washing as opposed to real AI
displacement right
>> the economy is not in a great place
right now people don't want to hire
anyway. It looks a lot better if you say
well we're not hiring because we're
replacing them with AI than just we're
having a rough time we're not hiring. AI
washing is a phrase I haven't heard used
in modern parliament yet, but it
certainly makes a whole lot of sense.
The line I heard, and I don't know where
I'm stealing this from, is you're not
going to be replaced by AI. You're going
to be replaced by somebody with a
greater facility working with AI than
you have. And it sort of creates a
self-fulfilling arms race to make sure
you you learn how to use that tool.
Otherwise, you're at risk for being
replaced by somebody who knows how to
use that tool.
>> I've heard that, too. But I don't think
these tools are that hard to use, right?
I mean, that's a failure on the part of
the AI companies if they're so hard to
use, right? Wasn't hard to use. Google
search
>> perplexity and and even chat GPT is is
absolutely easy as pie to use. I don't I
don't find them difficult. Sometimes you
have to keep changing the prompts to get
an improved answer. Like if you just ask
a question and walk away, well then
you're getting what everybody gets. But
if you I don't I don't really buy into
the prompt engineer job title. But a
little exposure is the more you ask it
and the more you vary it, you get a
variety of answers and eventually you
come up with something. Oh, that's
interesting and different. Let me let me
take a look at that. So, I mean, I have
strong feelings about this as an
educator because if these tools are
worth their salt,
>> it shouldn't take our students long to
figure out how to use them. Right.
>> Right.
>> So, why are we bringing them into
education where what they really need to
learn is how to spot hallucinations, how
to think critically so that if they are
going to use these tools later, they can
use them to the best of their abilities.
This whole arms race sense of well, they
need to use them in in school so they
don't get left behind. I'm like, it it
didn't take long to learn how to Google.
They'll be fine. you've been pretty
critical of things like crypto and
stable coin. We're going to get to those
in a moment. I want to talk about some
other things you've discussed. Um you've
brought up the whole idea of um
technology as a branding exercise
phrases like democratizing finance,
disruptive technology,
banking the unbanked. you've described
these as just, you know, marketing and
not really accomplishing anything. Tell
us a little bit about those and and give
us some examples.
>> Sure. I mean, I think at the heart of
all this is is innovation speak and
innovation worship, right? When we
alluded to that earlier, this sense that
anything that is innovative is
inherently good and must therefore be
permitted at all costs. And that is sort
of the font of a lot of the rhetoric and
narrative that we get out of Silicon
Valley that ultimately is there to
attract funding. Yes. But also to
procure
legal treatment that facilitates what
they want to do. It actually creates
often an unlevel legal playing field
where you have the incumbents who have
to comply with all the laws and then the
disruptors as you say um who don't have
to comply with all the laws and can
succeed on that basis even if their
product isn't superior in the way we
would typically expect a disruptor's um
product to be. So yeah, I mean
disruptive innovation
um you know goes back to Clayton
Christensen and and the innovator's
dilemma. This this sense that if you if
you stay still and just make good
products, you'll be out competed by
someone who is trying to um do things a
little differently. But you know there
there's no real formula that you can
take away from that as to what you
disruptive is in the eye of the
beholder. So, so let me push back on
that a little bit. Um, and all my VC
friends, I could just hear their voices
in my head. Um, and the push back is
look, most new companies fail. Most new
technologies crash and burn. Most new
ideas never make it. And even the best
of the best VCs, they'll make a hundred
investments for that one moonshot that
works out. and most of the other 99 are
at best break even but mostly losers.
How could you say uh this is true? Oh,
and real innovation often finds itself
in between the regulatory regime because
the technology that's being created was
never anticipated by the regulators or
or anybody else. Fair push back.
>> A lot of points that I would quibble
with there. Some of it's fair. Um,
>> quibble away.
>> Quibble away. All right. So,
there's this idea that the law is a
barrier to innovation because law is old
and innovation is new and the law
couldn't possibly have contemplated the
innovation.
The story about the innovation is what
makes it new. Right? Most of the things
that we're seeing in the fintech space,
>> they're not that new. Right? As I said,
you know, we've got fintech lending has
a lot of the things that we didn't like
about payday lending, right? Why
shouldn't the laws from payday lending
apply? Crypto basically, I mean, the the
crypto markets for all the world look
like the stocks and bonds and the
unregulated markets of the 1920s. We saw
how that ended. They ended in such a
spectacular crash that we ended up with
the securities laws. Why shouldn't they
apply? What's what's so different?
Right? So, this construction of novelty
is something that is done intentionally
as as a as a narrative. Now, I fully
appreciate that we need the optimists in
this world who are going to try new
things and and and I say that very early
on in the book, the people who these
stories are useful because they attract
funding to new things. So, I'm not
saying we should do away with it
completely. My argument is that the the
yin and yang, the balance between the
optimists and the realists is badly out
of whack because we give so much
difference to the stories about
innovation, about disruption, about how
technology can solve problems that have
been with us for centuries. We can
magically get rid of intermediaries now
with blockchain technology apparently.
Well, that was one of the that was one
of the story narratives was this
intermediation and until um it no longer
was a story, but but let's talk about
some specific companies that you've
mentioned that you've written about um
and I and I want to get your sense on it
and and the the oldest one was PayPal.
To this day, and I was a PayPal user
back in the 1990s with eBay and those
sort of things. Um, to this day, I don't
understand what they did that was any
different than a credit card other than
being a bit of middleware
uh that uh uh eventually became a
rentier. Why not just use a credit card?
Why do I need PayPal between me and
Amazon or me and eBay? So this is really
an interesting story and I learned a
whole lot about this in research for
this book um by reading Max Chaffkin's
book the contrarian about Peter Teal and
the start of the beginning of of PayPal
>> and in fact it the idea for PayPal came
from the same place that the idea for
crypto has come from which is this this
techno libertarian idea of we don't like
regulation we don't like central banks
we would like to have private money and
we would like technology to help us have
private money. And PayPal wasn't the
only one of these kinds of startups back
in the the early bubble. So, PayPal, I
think, succeeded because it sort of
lucked into this deal with eBay, as you
said, right? It it sort of had no
distinguishing features, as far as I can
tell, that made it any superior to the
beanses and the flooes of this world. It
lucked into this deal with with eBay.
Um, and so
>> and eventually eBay buys them um to
solve their I guess credit card
management problem. I don't really
understand I still you know 20 25 years
later I still don't understand
>> why they were necessary.
>> I think yeah I mean my my knowledge of
this comes primarily from reading Max
Chaffkin's book which I highly recommend
but that's that's my understanding too.
And so you know they are a payments
technology. Um I too struggle to sort of
understand what they offer that a credit
card doesn't in many ways. Um one thing
they are though is they are sort of the
regulatory arbitrage um story in fintech
right so you know I've said so much of
fintech is actually about arbitrageing
the law rather than technological
superiority.
PayPal from the beginning was flaunting
quite aggressively the banking laws
because only banks are allowed to accept
deposits and people were keeping money
in their PayPal PayPal wallets and for
all the world that looks like keeping a
deposit. Peter Thiel from the beginning
was very aggressive on the um lobbying
to make sure that that was not
considered deposit taking. Early on
there were multiple states that were
investigating it because they thought it
was the unlawful taking of deposits. um
he lobbied heavily in Congress and
lobbied heavily at the FDIC and
ultimately um you know that worked and
so I think that has sort of been the
prototype that blitzcaling prototype. I
think people
>> perhaps underestimate the degree to
which blit scaling is really about
playing it on an unlevel unlevel legal
playing field.
>> Let let's talk about stable coins. What
sort of value do they provide? again um
unless you are trying to do illicit
transactions or gamble not a whole lot
right so
>> well a stable coin is worth a dollar and
it promises to always be worth a dollar
don't we have dollars why do I need a
stable coin
>> well you need a stable coin often to do
illicit payments um so if you want you
know if you're they're very popular for
example with all kinds of drug cartels
and um they're good for sanctions
evasion
>> they're also very good if you want to
gamble in crypto and you want to use it
as sort of a cash management tool in
between crypto investments. Kind of like
a money market mutual fund in your
brokerage account for parking funds in
between crypto gambling.
>> Mh.
>> Um but they've really never had any
utility in any big way as a legal
payments mechanism.
>> All right. So what about you mentioned
the blockchain? I keep reading that
blockchain uh is going to allow us to
use smart contracts and have things
happen automatically that now have to be
manually. What what's the problem with
blockchain?
>> Well, first of all, smart contracts can
work without a blockchain. Smart
contracts predate blockchains. They can
run on all kinds of databases. So, if if
you want that kind of functionality, and
it has pros and cons, and I've written
about this a ton, um you can have that
without a blockchain. The reason why you
don't want to have it on a blockchain,
and this is something that does not get
anywhere near the attention it needs, is
that there's all kinds of operational
risks associated with the blockchains
themselves. So blockchains are software.
They are maintained by in the case of
the the Bitcoin blockchain, just a few
individuals. In the case of the Ethereum
blockchain, it's the Ethereum
Foundation. They're not regulated at
all. They have no obligation to invest
in cyber security, to invest in getting
their blockchains up and running again
should something go wrong, you're just
you're really sort of, as I sometimes
say, yoloing operational risk with
regards to these um these blockchains.
And so if you want smart chain, sorry,
smart contract functionality, like don't
use a blockchain.
>> Huh. and and we've so we've mentioned
stablecoin, we've mentioned blockchain.
Is there any value in any of the crypto
coins, be it Bitcoin or Ethereum? Um I
know we we can't actually describe the
last hundred coins that are out there on
the radio. um will [laughter] will will
violate George Carlin's seven words you
can't say on TV or radio, but there's a
outside of the you know, Dogecoins and
everything below that, what's the value
of the first five or so
cryptocurrencies? Is there anything
worthwhile to these or is this just a
solution in search of a problem?
>> It's a solution in search of a problem.
I mean essentially even so Bitcoin often
is seen as the most credible of these
because it's been around the longest and
has the largest
>> Bitcoin and ETH. Those are the two I
hear about the most.
>> Um but both of them are essentially
Ponzies in the sense that there's
nothing backing them. The only reason
they have value is because someone else
might buy them from you. If they choose
not to, it could go to zero. And
actually someone put it to me this way.
It's not that they could go to zero. it
could go to less than zero because they
don't even have any assets that could be
used to administer a winding up. Right.
[laughter] Right.
>> And and and and that's expensive. Um you
know, you're going to get the lawyers
and the courts and everybody involved.
That's
>> Well, you're not suggesting that if you
own Bitcoin, you may have a liability
down the road. Is that is that the
implication?
>> No, I'm just saying that if if someone
was trying to work out the end of one of
these things, there wouldn't even be,
you know, office furniture you could
sell to pay the lawyers. Okay. Um, you
you've written about uh startups like
Theronos. I remember Juicerero. Juicer
is the best. Te
>> tell us a little bit about those two.
And was that just uh you know one of
these products that just didn't work
out? What what's the problem with that
technology solution to our uh juicing
problems?
>> So Juicer is just my favorite metaphor
for all of this. So for those of you who
are unfamiliar with the the gift that is
Juicerero. So basically this was a
machine. It cost hundreds of dollars. It
was Wi-Fi enabled.
>> Well, roll back. The the guy and you
described this in the book. The guy who
invented this previously had set up a
fairly successful
um was it a juicing uh chain of
companies that got bought. And so he had
some credibility in the space. And now
I'm not going to run restaurants. I'm
gonna create a technology that people
can juice at home
>> and it was venture funded. They put a
lot of money into this
>> hundred plus million dollars
>> and these these what it did was it
squeezed these juice pouches. The
problem was that people could just
squeeze the juice pouches with their
bare hands and get all the juice.
>> There was there was a notorious
Bloomberg article about this.
But what it raises the question, did the
company already squeeze the juice and
put it in these pouches? Why didn't they
like why wasn't this set up so that you
can actually put fresh fruit? Like
doesn't it defeat the purpose if you're
buying pouches or was the whole idea the
razor blade model? So I mean the reason
why I love this as a metaphor is it it
really gets at this this
technosolutionism which is one of the
concepts that I'm really coming for in
in this book and technosolutionism is
this idea that everything in our world
can be reduced into a technology problem
and that the only reason we haven't
solved certain things is because we
haven't spent enough time and money on
developing the the technology. And and
what that does is it it sort of flattens
problems into it gets rid of the human
messiness. It it flattens problems. It
ignores domain expertise. People who've
been working in particular fields for a
long time and know a lot of non- tech
stuff. It it sort of dismisses their
expertise. And sadly, you know, there's
just this magic associated with
technology at this point. And and as I
said, I'm not anti-technology. A lot of
it's great, but it doesn't deserve the
level of sort of magical difference that
we give it. It can't solve all our
problems.
>> And when we get into this mindset where
we think that if we throw enough money
at technology, it can solve anything and
it will always be the best solutions, we
end up squeezing pouches with a machine
that we could squeeze with our bare
hands. And and a joke that I try and
make in the book is like with with AI,
we may be better off squeezing things
with our bare minds. Mhm. So, one more
company I have to ask about um Theronos.
Uh I love the book Bad Blood, which
really went into details about how
corrosive and co-oping co-opting the
company itself was for everybody around
it, including the attorneys and and all
sorts of other bad actors. Um why wasn't
Theronos just an idea that didn't work?
that you can't if you want to draw blood
from a vein, you have to draw blood from
a vein, you can't just prick your
fingertip and think that's going to be
the same as as venal draws.
>> Well, so that's the thing with this
technosolutionism. It presumes that
everything is a tech problem waiting to
be solved. It doesn't even countenance
the possibility that there may not be a
technological solution for what you want
to do. that the technology you want may
not be able to do the thing you want it
to do. And when you have that sort of
collective sense that I think we have
now that if we throw enough money at any
technology, it can solve any problem we
give it. You can see how people get so
susceptible to being sort of drawn in to
the stories that outright con people
like Elizabeth Holmes might be telling,
but also the stories that we're being
told about, you know, about AI right now
and about crypto. You know, the more you
know about these technologies, the less
impressive they seem and the more
clearly it becomes illuminated that that
they just can't do a lot of the things
that they're going to do. But that's so
counter to how we typically talk about
technologies that it sort of it feels a
bit weird to talk like that. Um and and
you sort of you're going against
societal norms in a way. And so one of
the things that I really wanted to do
with this is to start making it easier
to talk about these things critically to
be not such an outlier to express your
frustrations and I think we're actually
having a moment like that about AI
because so many people really hate it
>> really. So, so you use the phrase
technosolutionism
and Theronos is really the poster child
for that because as you're describing a
lot of these things I am recalling the
story a especially what you're referring
to with domain expertise she had no
medical or medical device training
>> none of the VCs who put money into um
Theronos were healthcare biotech medical
devices like they all passed. Um
eventually she hired a number of people
to try and with some background but they
seemed to turn over pretty quickly
because no you can't do that. What you
just pricking the skin you're getting
all the interstitial tissue and fluids
and you're corrupting the sample that
you want to test for something you have
the re the reason we draw from the vein
is very medically specific. Um, and yet
it attracted
uh Henry Kissinger and the uh all sorts
of big law firms and everybody plowed
in. She's the next Steve Jobs, the
youngest self-made female billionaire.
What is it about us that we're just so
susceptible to buying into these
narrative tales that turn out to be
nonsense?
So, I mean, part of it is that we're
humans and humans have often sort of
been snowed by things that are flashy
and shiny and exciting. I mean, that
that's just very much the human
condition. Um, some of the stuff I talk
about in the in the book that I really
enjoyed working on was the cognitive
psychology aspects of it. you know, sort
of
when we hear certain stories,
it's very difficult to budge ourselves
and and be contrarian. And I was as I
was saying earlier, so you sort of need
a a collective tipping point where
people start to question it. So you're
you don't feel like an outlier or the
norm when you start to question these
things. And so I think there's a role
for media here. I think there's a role
for education. Unfortunately, the people
who benefit from technosolutionism also
know this and have a very big media
presence and invest a lot in education.
So, it's it's it's an uphill battle to
start talking about these things
differently. Um, but you know,
ultimately we we are all human. Um, and
it's nicer to believe that something
will succeed than than that it will
fail. I mean, you might not think I'd be
much fun at cocktail parties, although I
am. [laughter]
And the book is available for free at
fintechdistopia.com.com.
>> Um, let's jump to our final questions,
our favorite questions we ask all of our
guests. Uh, starting with tell us about
your mentors who helped steer your
career.
>> Um, so my first mentor is probably my
first law firm partner boss um in in
Australia, Stephen Kavanagh. Um, and I
had thought I was going to be an IP
lawyer. Um, but we had a rotation system
and we ended up and I ended up in his
financial services practice. Um, and he
was just a wonderful person to work for.
It was a time when the law had just
changed in Australia and and he really
was willing to hear what I had to say
about this this new new law. And so it
was just I just felt very invested in
and that that was that was lovely. And
then I think as an academic
Patricia McCoy who I adore um sort of I
I had had a very non-traditional path to
academia. I had more practice experience
than is usually the case. I had fewer of
the bells and whistles credentials that
people usually have. And again she just
saw in me someone who was really
passionate about preventing financial
crisis about sort of systemic risk. um
and sort of was willing to look through
the fact that I wasn't as polished as
most of the other people trying to enter
academia and support me and I was very
grateful for that.
>> We've talked about a run of different
books. Uh what are some of your
favorites? What are you reading right
now?
>> Oh, I was an English lit major so I I
have many favorites. I'm I'm very into
the dystopian track. So, Handmaid's Tale
1984. Yeah. I just finished the parable
of the sewer in that vein, which was
>> parable of the
>> the parable of the sewer.
>> Um, Octavia Butler. Um, I also have
always had a soft spot for really good
children's literature. So, um, Philip
Pulman's Dark Materials trilogy is one
of my favorites and and right now I'm
reading with my kids um, Katherine
Randelle's books um, Impossible
Creatures and um, The Poison King and
it's just they're just so good. And then
work-wise, I've just started Jacob
Silverman's Gilded Rage, which is very
much on point for the conversation we're
having.
>> Gilded Rage. You know, we talked about a
few cryptoreated books. Did you see uh
Zeke's
>> number go up?
>> It really is just an astonishing
astonishing work. Um, what sort of
advice would you give to a recent
college grad interested in a career on
uh whether it was law uh financial
technology regulation? What's your
advice to those people?
>> It's a really hard time for them and I I
talk to my students a lot about the
careers and you know things are the
ground is shifting under our feet and in
this time of uncertainty it's really
it's really hard um to figure out what
to do. So, I would recommend investing
in the fundamentals. Um, and I think
it's it's hard to do when AI is being
pushed, but but becoming a good
communicator, learning how to write and
speak to people clearly will never, I
think, go out of fashion. And investing
in relationships. Again, we're in this
time where everything is sort of
becoming technologized and atomized,
etc. But in my career, having good
relationships with people, and I'm
pretty sure you'll agree with this, has
been one of the most successful things
um that has helped me along the way. Um
and so just investing in personal
relationships, I think, is is always
good advice.
>> And our final question, what do you know
about the world of fintech investing
regulation today might have been useful
20 25 years ago?
Well, [snorts]
honestly,
I'm not sure that there's much because
the world was very different 20 20 to 25
years ago. You know, I I always just
invested in um
>> in index funds basically and and you
know, and that worked out frankly great
for me. Um the challenge is and I study
financial crisis.
>> The challenge is that when things go
horribly wrong, everything is
correlated. Everything is correlated.
All correlations go to one in a crisis
for sure.
>> And I think we're on the brink of a
crisis. Um
>> when you say on the brink, days, weeks,
months, years.
>> Ah, well, John Maynard Kaine said that
the markets can stay irrational longer
than you and I can stay solvent. So I
will never put a time frame on it. But
I, you know, all warning indicators are
flashing red at the same time as we are
pulling back all regulatory apparatus.
So I think it's safe to say we're on the
brink of a crisis. How could that ever
go wrong? Regulation unleashes
>> the animal spirits as long as we're
talking about canes. Um, it's all good.
>> Perhaps not.
>> Perhaps not. Um, Hillary, thank you so
much for being so generous with your
time. We have been speaking with Hillary
Allen, professor of law at American
University Washington College in DC and
author of the book available for free
online, [music] Fintech Dystopia, a
summer beach read about how Silicon
Valley [music] is ruining things. If you
enjoy this conversation, well, check out
any of the 600 previous discussions
we've had over the past 12 years. You
can find those at iTunes, [music]
Spotify, YouTube, Bloomberg, or wherever
you find your favorite podcast. I would
be remiss if I didn't thank our crack
staff [music] that helps put these
conversations together each week. Alexis
Noriega is my video producer. Shawn
Russo is my researcher. Anna Luke is my
podcast producer. [music] I'm Barry
Rholz. You've been listening to Masters
in Business on Bloomberg Radio.